Yancy Zhang
San Francisco Bay Area
(510) 570-9170
yancyzhang@protonmail.com

TECHNICAL SKILLS

Languages: Ruby, Python, Javascript, 
Web Technologies: React, Ruby on Rails, Node.js, Express.js
Databases: PostgreSQL, MongoDB

SOFTWARE PROJECTS

Online Quiz Project: 
		An online quiz app that let users view flash cards, take a quiz, ask questions, and answer other people's questions
		Github: https://github.com/yuanxizhang/quiz-game-frontend

Travel Project:
		A group travel app that let users browse tour offers, make and update travel bucket lists.
		Github: https://github.com/yuanxizhang/travel-project

Lesson Booking Project: 
		A Ruby on Rails application that helps users to book lessons and review instructors. 
		Demo: https://book-lessons.herokuapp.com
		Github: https://github.com/yuanxizhang/book-lessons

Content Management Software project: 
		A web app that allows users to keep track their reading logs and book club meetings.
		Github: https://github.com/yuanxizhang/book-club-literature-log

Web Scraping Project: 
		A CLI app that scrapes No Starch Press book publisher's web site for books by different topics.
		Github: https://github.com/yuanxizhang/no_starch_press


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

AMERICAN HORSE PROJECT
Software Developer (Apr 2021 - present)
Work with a team of designers and developer building a web application using React, Express.js, Node.js, and MongoDB.

FLATIRON SCHOOL
Software Engineering Student (Feb 2019 — Feb 2021)
Designed and developed web applications using React and JavaScript for frontend, PostgreSQL and Ruby on Rails for the backend.

Yu Ming Charter School, Oakland, CA
After School Program Teacher (September 2019 — March 2020)
Implement learning activities for the purpose of improving students' academic and social skills, Assist students with lesson assignments, tutor middle school students on writing English and Chinese essays.

Friends of Albany Library, Albany, CA
Volunteer Board Member (March 2014 — Present)
Review annual budget, prepare  1099-MISC  Tax Forms, file state and federal tax returns for the non-profit. 

Capital One, Las Vegas, NV
MIS Analyst (March 2012 — December 2013)
Developed Key Performance Indicators and scorecards to monitor credit card application volumes and approval rate by portfolio for Credit Operations. Designed SQL queries and wrote SAS programs to obtain credit card application data to improve credit quality. 

HSBC Card Services, Las Vegas, NV
Business Information Analyst (February 2004 — January 2009)
Wrote SAS programs, performed data analysis based on customer experience survey results and developed monthly and quarterly customer satisfaction reports for different call centers and different portfolios, worked on implementing new strategies to improve customer experience.
	

EDUCATION 

Flatiron School
Software Engineering Program

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, Seattle, WA
Coursework completed towards a Master of Arts degree in Sociology

RENMIN UNIVERSITY OF CHINA, Beijing, CHINA
Master of Arts in Economics
Bachelor of Arts in Economics